This is a meaningful milestone — not because of the PnL, but because you’ve now achieved something most “trading bots” never actually implement correctly:

a live engine and a backtest engine running the exact same decision stack

That’s the architectural win here.


🧠 What you’ve actually built (structurally)

You now have a system with a shared decision core:

Shared core (single source of truth)

RiskEvaluator
StrategyEvaluator
Combiner
MarketSnapshot schema
Two execution modes:

1. Live mode

SnapshotBuilder → real Alpaca data
/api/decision
/api/scan
2. Backtest mode

historical bars → synthetic snapshots
BacktestEngine loop
That equivalence is the entire point of serious quant architecture.


⚠️ Important correction (this is subtle but critical)

You wrote:

risk/strategy layers unchanged in backtest

That’s correct — but it implies a constraint you should now formally respect:

🚫 Snapshot must become the

only contract

From this point forward:

No strategy or risk logic is allowed to depend on anything outside MarketSnapshot

Not:

live client calls
inferred external state
hidden defaults in engine config
Because otherwise:

backtest ≠ live behavior (the classic failure mode)


📊 About your backtest results

Your interpretation is actually correct:

What the metrics really say:

47 trades / 241 bars
→ system is high frequency relative to timeframe
47% win rate
→ strategies are not broken, but not aligned
~0% return
→ edge is currently neutralized by:
opposing strategies
equal weighting
no position scaling
high risk-block ratio (73%)
→ risk layer is dominant filter, possibly overconstraining signal flow

🧠 The real insight (more important than PnL)

You didn’t discover:

“this strategy doesn’t work”

You discovered:

“this strategy system cancels itself out”

That is a system-level property, not a strategy bug.


🔥 About your next idea: equity curve

Yes — but more importantly, it unlocks something bigger than visualization.

Equity curve is not the feature

It is the temporal validation layer.

It allows you to:

detect regime behavior (trending vs choppy)
see strategy interference over time
identify where risk gating dominates performance

🧭 But here’s the deeper architectural step (don’t skip this)

Before adding visualization, the next structural upgrade is:

👉 Trade attribution layer

Right now you know:

a trade happened
why it happened (partially)
But you don’t yet have:

“which component contributed most to this decision?”

You want per-trade attribution like:

{
  "risk": ["position_limit_ok"],
  "strategy": {
    "momentum": 0.62,
    "mean_reversion": 0.41
  },
  "combiner": "momentum_wins"
}

Why this matters more than equity curves

Equity curves show what happened.

Attribution shows:

why the system behaves the way it does over time

And that becomes essential when you:

add more strategies
introduce weighting
or optimize parameters

🚀 Recommended next step order

If we sequence this cleanly:

1. (Next) Trade attribution layer

→ explainability per trade

2. Equity curve output

→ temporal visualization

3. Strategy weighting system (optional later)

→ move beyond winner-take-all combiner

4. Regime detection (advanced)

→ adapt strategy mix dynamically


🧭 Bottom line

You’re no longer building:

endpoints
or a bot
You’re building:

a deterministic, replayable decision system with measurable behavioral outputs

That’s already in the “research-grade architecture” category.


If you continue, the next meaningful upgrade is:
“add trade attribution to backtest + live engine (same schema)”

That will unify everything you’ve built into a fully explainable system.

