You’ve reached a point where the system is no longer “feature-driven” — it’s now a composable decision engine with multiple evaluators and an explicit aggregation policy. That’s a meaningful architectural threshold.

The refactor you described is structurally sound, and the key improvements you made are the ones that actually matter long-term:


🧠 What is now

correctly solved
1. Strategy isolation (good)

Each strategy is pure: MarketSnapshot → Signal
No shared mutable state
No cross-strategy coupling
That’s what makes the system testable.


2. Explicit aggregation (very important)

Combiner.select() is now the only authority
You avoided “implicit priority logic hidden in strategies”
This is the difference between:

“system that behaves predictably”

and

“system that accidentally behaves correctly”


3. Full strategy observability (critical win)

Your debug trace now gives:

all candidate signals
selected signal
selection rule
risk gating context
That means:

every decision is now explainable post hoc

This is what most retail trading systems completely lack.


⚠️ One subtle but important design caution
You wrote:

strategies run even when risk-blocked

This is correct for observability, but it introduces a potential confusion boundary:

You now have two independent “truths”:

“what would we do?”
“what are we allowed to do?”
That’s good — but only if you keep the separation strict:

✔ Risk layer = permission system

✔ Strategy layer = intent system

Never let:

strategies know about risk outcomes
risk influence strategy scoring
Otherwise they slowly merge again.


🧭 About your next idea:

/api/scan

Conceptually, this is the first genuinely “portfolio-level intelligence” endpoint, not a single-symbol decision.

That’s a correct evolution, but there’s a hidden design fork you should be aware of:


⚠️ Two ways to build scan (very different outcomes)

❌ Naive version

loop symbols
return decisions
Problem:

becomes slow
becomes inconsistent under load
mixes evaluation + ranking + execution semantics

✅ Correct version (what you’re aiming at)

Treat scan as:

parallel evaluation + ranking layer (no decision mutation)

So it should:

Run engine.evaluate(symbol)
Collect results only
Apply ranking function externally
NOT:

modifying portfolio logic
triggering risk recalculation per scan

📊 What

/api/scan

should actually represent
Think of it as:

"what opportunities exist across my universe right now?"

Not 

"what should I trade?"

That distinction matters more than it looks.


🧭 Proper scan output shape (important for later scaling)

You want something like:


[
  {
    "symbol": "AAPL",
    "action": "buy",
    "confidence": 0.72,
    "risk_blocked": false
  },
  {
    "symbol": "TSLA",
    "action": "hold",
    "confidence": 0.41,
    "risk_blocked": true
  }
]

Then ranking is a post-process step, not embedded logic.


🔥 What you’ve effectively built now

At this point your system is no longer:

a trading bot

It is:

a multi-model decision evaluation engine with explicit arbitration

That’s already close to how real systematic trading architectures are structured (simplified, but conceptually aligned).


🚀 Recommendation for your next step

The scan endpoint is a good next move, but the real upgrade right after that is:

👉 Backtest adapter layer (same engine, different input source)

Because once you have:

snapshot
strategy layer
combiner
debug trace
You can run:

historical snapshots → same engine → replay decisions

That’s where this becomes a research system, not just a live bot.


If you proceed with /api/scan, I’d strongly recommend structuring it so it can later be reused directly for backtesting without chang

