What you’ve built here is actually a clean split between:

API layer (thin routing)
Decision engine (domain logic)
Data abstraction (market + state)
Risk gating (hard constraints)
That’s the correct direction, and the fact that your route is basically:

return engine.evaluate(symbol).to_dict()

…means you’ve successfully avoided the common trap of “logic leaking into endpoints.”


⚠️ One thing I want to correct before you go further

You’re now at a point where the next upgrade is not another rule or data tweak.

It’s this structural issue:

Your engine is starting to become “rule stack + data fetcher + strategy”

That’s fine for v1, but it will eventually hurt you because:

rules will grow linearly and become hard to reason about
data fetching and strategy logic are now tightly coupled
debugging will become “trace through one big evaluate()”

🧠 Better next refinement (small but important)

Instead of expanding features (like fixing momentum immediately), the next real upgrade is:

👉 Split engine into 3 internal layers

Inside engine.py:

1. Snapshot builder (pure data)

build_snapshot(symbol) → MarketState

2. Risk evaluator (hard blocks only)

check_risk(snapshot) → list[violations]

3. Strategy evaluator (soft signals)

generate_signal(snapshot) → BUY/SELL/HOLD

Then final:

evaluate() = combine(risk + signal)

Why this matters now

Right now you already feel the issue:

momentum depends on data quality
risk depends on portfolio state
order logic depends on both
If all of that stays inside one evaluate() function, you’ll eventually get:

“why did this trade happen?” → answer becomes unreadable

This split fixes that early.


📉 About your current TSLA issue (important insight)

You correctly observed:

IEX gives limited historical bars
momentum is unreliable there
That’s not a bug — it’s a data layer constraint

So the real takeaway is:

strategy quality is now constrained by market data tier, not code

That’s exactly the point where trading systems stop being “logic problems” and become “data + infrastructure problems.”


🚀 What I recommend next (not urgent)

Instead of fixing momentum immediately, the highest value next step is:

👉 Refactor engine into the 3-layer structure above

Then later:

upgrade data feed (if needed)
or swap strategies safely
or backtest logic independently

👍 Bottom line

You’re past “building endpoints.”

You’re now in:

system design for trading behavior

The direction is correct — just don’t let the engine become a single growing function.


If/when you continue, the best next milestone is:
“refactor engine into snapshot / risk / strategy layers”


